Welcome back.
In this video we're going to be discussing a special type of function that as 2015 provides called a
generator.
Up until now when a function was executed it ran until it was completed either through the return keyword.
Or when there was no more code to run generator functions are a bit different.
They essentially allow us to pause execution of a function and resume at a later point in time and are
created using an asterisk after the function keyword.
When a generator function is run a generator object is returned to us that generator object has a method
called Next which returns another object to us with the keys of value and done.
Value is what is returned from the pause function using the yield keyword which we'll see and done is
a Boolean which returns true when the function has completed.
Let's take a look at our first generator here.
We are iterating a certain number of times and using the yield keyword to yield the counter variable
each time if we invoke this function we'll get back a generator object on the generator object.
We have a method called next which will run the code after the first keyword it sees we can keep calling
dot next until there are no more values.
And the done property is true.
You might not see how generators can be useful yet.
But imagine if we had a function that was very time consuming to run and we only needed to run parts
of it at a time.
Generators would be perfect for that.
In order to do that we place multiple yield keywords inside of a generator function to posit possible
times.
Here you can see we are simply printing three values and accessing what has been yielded to us.
Another handy feature the generators have is that they implement a simple iterator which means we can
iterate over a generator using a for loop.
Let's see what that looks like.
Here we have our same function as before but instead of copying dot next Every time we can simply use
a for loop and other common use case for generators is for working with asynchronous code since we can
Pozza function we can also pause the result of some asynchronous operation and then continue in the
code below.
We're pausing for a promise and using dot then to resolve it we can have multiple yield statements for
different promises and resolve them whenever we'd like and then continue resuming our function generators
are the foundation for some complex libraries that help manage asynchronous code.
But there is a newer way to manage asynchronous code with as 20:17 async functions.
So we'll be covering those more in detail over generators in the next video.
We'll take a look at some newer E.S. 2013 methods and how they can help us refactor more challenging
issues with javascript.
See then.